---
layout: project
title: IARC Mission 7
permalink: /projects/IARC/
image: /assets/images/projects/2017/project-iarc-page.jpg

leaders: Levi Burner, Aaron Miller, Andrew Saba, Liam Berti
isPrev: True
years_active: Fall 2016 - Summer 2018
albumID: 72157666933540901
project_tag: IARC
galleries: [
    {
        link: 'https://photos.app.goo.gl/28RuFcXoVmdbtFBd8',
        thumb: iarc-2016-2017.png,
        title: IARC 2016-2017 Meetings,
    },
    {
        link: 'https://photos.app.goo.gl/2xXEN6NVRuU99ChU7',
        thumb: iarc-2017-competition.jpg,
        title: IARC 2017 Competition,
    },
    {
        link: 'https://photos.app.goo.gl/smqSzDoRyoxRLvsYA',
        thumb: iarc-2017-2018.png,
        title: IARC 2017-2018 Meetings,
    },
    {
        link: 'https://photos.app.goo.gl/P8EZVrt5FdvZiYZU9',
        thumb: iarc-2018-competition.jpg,
        title: IARC 2018 Competition,
    },
]
---
Pitt RAS competed in Mission 7 of the [International Aerial Robotics Competition (IARC)](http://aerialroboticscompetition.org) in 2017 and 2018. The project was active from the Fall of 2016-2018. The team developed multiple fully autonomous air vehichles that were entirely custom built.

The IARC is an annual competition requiring teams to develop aerial robots that solve problems on the cutting edge of what is currently achievable by any robots, whether owned by industry or governments. Mission 7 involved developing an autonomous drone capable of interacting with randomly moving robots on the ground to direct them towards a goal. Additionally, the drone needed to navigate in an indoor environment without GPS or SLAM meaning that purely optical methods had to be used.

The team developed complex mechanical, electrical, software in order to achieve their goals. In some aspects, the results surpassed what could be found commercially. For the final technical overview checkout the [2018 Technical Postmortem](/projects/iarc/2018/08/10/update-iarc-technical-postmortem.html) (its full of pictures!).

The following autonomous behaviours were demonstrated: autonomous flight, localizing and remaining within an arena, avoidance of moving obstacles, and hitting and blocking moving targets. All of these behaviours were demonstrated at the 2018 competition except for target interaction.

In 2017, the team won Best System Design and achieved the most points at the American venue of the IARC (Georgia Tech). The other awards were Most Innovative, Best Technical Paper, Best Presentation, and Best T-Shirt.

In 2018, the team again won Best System Design, Best Technical Paper, and achieved the most points at the American venue.

### Team Members
All members were undergrads at Pitt except for a few RAS alumni who came back to work on things that helped hone their professional skills. If your name is missing we apologize, please get ahold of someone on Slack!

Aaron Miller,
Adriena Cribb,
Andrew Harman,
Andrew Lobos,
Andrew Saba,
Ankit Joshi,
Brandon Contino,
Caroline Collopy,
Conner Babinchak,
Dan Gilmour,
Elliot Miller,
Evan Becker,
Garret Sultzbach,
Harrison Green,
Jack Bartley,
Jackie Sharp,
Jay Maier,
John Mas,
Jeff Deely,
Kaylene Stocking,
Levi Burner,
Liam Berti,
Liam Rethore,
Matt Belding,
Matt Bilker,
Nathan Todd,
Patrick Snyder,
Quentin Torgerson,
Quinnan Gill,
Ritesh Misra,
Sridhar Reddy Velagala,
Zach Egolf,
Zac Yu

### Papers, Posters, and Presentations
[2016 First Meeting Presentation](/assets/misc/IARC-2016-1st-Meeting-Presentation.pdf)<br/>
[2017 IARC Symposium Presentation](/assets/misc/IARC-Symposium-Presentation-2017.pdf)<br/>
[2017 IARC Symposium Paper](/assets/misc/iarc7.pdf)<br/>
[2017 Project Poster](/assets/misc/IARC-2017-Poster.pptx.pdf)<br/>
[2017 First Meeting Presentation](/assets/misc/IARC-2017-Intro-Meeting-Presentation.pdf)<br/>
[2018 PAAV Summit Poster](/assets/misc/iarc-PAAVSummit-2018-Poster.pdf)<br/>
[2018 IARC Symposium Presentation](/assets/misc/IARC-Symposium-Presentation-2018.pdf)<br/>
[2018 IARC Symposium Paper](/assets/misc/iarc-technical-paper-2018.pdf) (Won Best Technical Paper)
